README.md, before:

# ProgrammingLanguagesFinalProject: ZLingo

<img src="images/ZLingo2.png" alt="" width="400"/>

## LANGCRAFT SP24
TEAM
1. Brett Williams
2. Elizaveta Kim
3. Mark Karomo

## Overview
This is the ZLingo language. This language is designed to use Gen Z slang in a programming context. This language allows for basic object oriented programming.

## Features
- File extension: .gz

## Syntax Rules
|Syntax|Description|
|------|-----------|
|double period ( ..)|End of command character. The space before the periods is necessary.|
|colon (: )| Used after certain keywords to indicate what is being passed to the keyword, function, or command. (Example: "yapper: 'Hello World' .." would print 'Hello World' to the console). The space after the colon is necessary.|
|@| Indicates a single line comment|
|??| Indicates a multi-line comment. Begin with '??' and end with '?? \\'|

## Variables
|Variable Type|Description|
|-------------|-----------|
|manifest| Used to declare an int variable|
|yap| Used to declare a string variable|

## Keywords
|Keyword|Description|
|-------|-----------|
|serve| Used to declare a function|
|gatekeep| Makes a variable static|
|clapback| Return statement|
|dip| Break statement|
|ghost| Null|
|facts| True|
|cap| False|

### Functions/Commands
|Function Keyword|Description|
|----------------|-----------|
|yapper| Used to print text to the console|
|yeet<| Removes the first item from a list|
|yeet>| Removes the last item from a list|
|yeet[i]| Removes the item at the given index (i) of a list|
|mansplain| Makes all characters in a yap variable captialized|
|shortking| Makes all characters in a yap variable lowercased|
|stringGaslight| Changes a yap variable to a manifest variable|
|intGaslight| Changes a manifest variable to a yap variable|

### Loops
|Loop Name|Description|
|---------|-----------|
|Finesse| Runs an if loop based on the given condition|
|ThrowHands| Else Statement|
|LetItCook| Runs the given code while the given condition is true|
|VibeCheck| Runs a for loop until the given condition is met|

## Demo Code Snippets
#### Print statement:
```
yapper: "Hello world" ..
```

#### int (manifest) variable declaration:
```
manifest number = 20 ..
```

#### Static (gatekeep) string (yap) variable declaration
```
gatekeep yap text = "Bing Bong" ..
```

#### Print statement w/ the variable 'text'
```
yap text = "Hello World" ..

yapper: text ..
```

#### Creates a new string (yap) variable by changing the int (manifest) variable 'num' into a string (yap) variable
```
manifest number = 30 ..

yap num = stringGaslight: number ..
```

#### Creates a new int (manifest) variable by changing the string (yap) variable 'num2' into an int (manifest) variable
````
yap num2 = 3 ..

manifest textNum = intGaslight: num2 ..
````

#### Single line comment
```
@ This is a comment
```

#### Multi-Line Comment
```
?? This is a
Multi-line comment ?? \
```
#### This creates a function that return 'facts' or 'cap' depending on the value of 'x' that is passed to the function:
```
        serve FactOrCap: x
           finesse: x >= 10
               clapback facts ..
           throwhands
               clapback cap ..
```

#### Calls the FactOrCap function, passing the variable 'number' to it:
```
       FactOrCap: number ..
```

#### Creates a while loop that prints out numbers until the given variable is greater than 30
```
       serve LetItCook: x < 30
           yapper: x ..
           x++ ..
```

### Error Messages
|Error Message|Description|
|-------------|-----------|
|This ain't it chief|Syntax Error.|
|It's giving error||
|Bruh||
|Big Yikes||
|And I oop-||

## Usage Instructions

## State of the Language

Commit message:

Started grammar structures on README

README.md, after:

# ProgrammingLanguagesFinalProject: ZLingo

<img src="images/ZLingo2.png" alt="" width="400"/>

## LANGCRAFT SP24
TEAM
1. Brett Williams
2. Elizaveta Kim
3. Mark Karomo

## Overview
This is the ZLingo language. This language is designed to use Gen Z slang in a programming context. This language allows for basic object oriented programming.

## Features
- File extension: .gz

## Syntax Rules
|Syntax|Description|
|------|-----------|
|double period ( ..)|End of command character. The space before the periods is necessary.|
|colon (: )| Used after certain keywords to indicate what is being passed to the keyword, function, or command. (Example: "yapper: 'Hello World' .." would print 'Hello World' to the console). The space after the colon is necessary.|
|@| Indicates a single line comment|
|??| Indicates a multi-line comment. Begin with '??' and end with '?? \\'|

## Variables
|Variable Type|Description|
|-------------|-----------|
|manifest| Used to declare an int variable|
|yap| Used to declare a string variable|

## Keywords
|Keyword|Description|
|-------|-----------|
|serve| Used to declare a function|
|gatekeep| Makes a variable static|
|clapback| Return statement|
|dip| Break statement|
|ghost| Null|
|facts| True|
|cap| False|

### Functions/Commands
|Function Keyword|Description|
|----------------|-----------|
|yapper| Used to print text to the console|
|yeet<| Removes the first item from a list|
|yeet>| Removes the last item from a list|
|yeet[i]| Removes the item at the given index (i) of a list|
|mansplain| Makes all characters in a yap variable captialized|
|shortking| Makes all characters in a yap variable lowercased|
|stringGaslight| Changes a yap variable to a manifest variable|
|intGaslight| Changes a manifest variable to a yap variable|

### Loops
|Loop Name|Description|
|---------|-----------|
|Finesse| Runs an if loop based on the given condition|
|ThrowHands| Else Statement|
|LetItCook| Runs the given code while the given condition is true|
|VibeCheck| Runs a for loop until the given condition is met|

## Demo Code Snippets
#### Print statement:
```
yapper: "Hello world" ..
```

#### int (manifest) variable declaration:
```
manifest number = 20 ..
```

#### Static (gatekeep) string (yap) variable declaration
```
gatekeep yap text = "Bing Bong" ..
```

#### Print statement w/ the variable 'text'
```
yap text = "Hello World" ..

yapper: text ..
```

#### Creates a new string (yap) variable by changing the int (manifest) variable 'num' into a string (yap) variable
```
manifest number = 30 ..

yap num = stringGaslight: number ..
```

#### Creates a new int (manifest) variable by changing the string (yap) variable 'num2' into an int (manifest) variable
````
yap num2 = 3 ..

manifest textNum = intGaslight: num2 ..
````

#### Single line comment
```
@ This is a comment
```

#### Multi-Line Comment
```
?? This is a
Multi-line comment ?? \
```
#### This creates a function that return 'facts' or 'cap' depending on the value of 'x' that is passed to the function:
```
        serve FactOrCap: x
           finesse: x >= 10
               clapback facts ..
           throwhands
               clapback cap ..
```

#### Calls the FactOrCap function, passing the variable 'number' to it:
```
       FactOrCap: number ..
```

#### Creates a while loop that prints out numbers until the given variable is greater than 30
```
       serve LetItCook: x < 30
           yapper: x ..
           x++ ..
```

### Grammar Statements
The following are proper grammar statements that can be used in the language.
- manifest VARNAME EQUALS NUM OPERATOR NUM ..
- manifest VARNAME EQUALS NUM OPERATOR NUM OPERATOR ..
- manifest VARNAME OPERATOR OPERATOR ..
- yap VARNAME EQUALS STRING ..

### Error Messages
|Error Message|Description|
|-------------|-----------|
|This ain't it chief|Syntax Error.|
|It's giving error||
|Bruh||
|Big Yikes||
|And I oop-||

## Usage Instructions

## State of the Language
